Unknown Speaker  0:00  
So we've

Unknown Speaker  0:01  
been sending spending a couple of lectures talking about type one error rates. And we said that type one error rate is the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when the null hypothesis is actually true. So clearly, it's something we don't want to do. It's making an incorrect decision in the situation where your null hypothesis is actually true, and we talked about the last couple of lectures, was estimating the type one error rate via simulation. So what we've learned is that we can simulate under a variety of scenarios where we say, okay, the null hypothesis is actually true, and whether the data follow a normal distribution or follow a gamma distribution, or anything else, we can say if the null hypothesis is that the mean is this value right here, let's simulate with that particular mean, with whatever distribution, and then estimate what the probability of making a type one error is by calculating the proportion of the time that your test rejects the null hypothesis in that situation. And rejecting the null hypothesis in that situation is an incorrect decision because the null hypothesis is actually true in that case. All right, now, a few days ago, when I had asked if anyone had heard of the term statistical power only, I think a couple of people maybe said that they had. And so let's do the

Unknown Speaker  1:17  
Poll Everywhere anyway, let's, let's see if we can at least take a guess, or maybe you do know what it is, and that's great. Is, and that's great if you do. But if you don't go ahead and just take a guess, I

Unknown Speaker  1:27  
get this

Unknown Speaker  1:30  
all right, and we are up. I'm

Unknown Speaker  1:58  
all right, so we're pretty, pretty

Unknown Speaker  2:01  
split all the way across. Actually, we were 55th between these two right here. Pretty clearly C and D are going to be incorrect choices here. We can't say the probability of the null hypothesis being either true or false. E is what we saw to be a type one error. So that one's not right either, because power is different from a type one error. And so then it's down to these two right here, and those two both are reasonable sounding in the sense that power seems like something that we want to be high, and so it is the probability of making some correct decision. The question is, which one? And specifically, it's the probability of correctly rejecting the null hypothesis. What?

Unknown Speaker  2:40  
So in

Unknown Speaker  2:43  
other

Unknown Speaker  2:54  
words, if the null hypothesis is actually false, then we would hope that whatever statistical test we do is going to tell us to reject that null hypothesis. In other words, with the UCSD students and their hours of sleep, if their average amount of sleep is actually different from that null hypothesis value of six hours, then we would hope that when we do a statistical test, that test is going to tell us to reject the null hypothesis. If you're doing a clinical drug trial and you're testing whether a drug actually works or not, your null hypothesis is going to be that the drug doesn't do anything, that it doesn't work. You're trying to show that it does do something. That it does do something. And so your statistical power in that situation is going to be the probability of correctly identifying that your drug actually does do something, If

Unknown Speaker  3:36  
that is the

Unknown Speaker  3:42  
case. So so

Unknown Speaker  4:02  
this is actually true. Your power is only the probability of correctly saying that the alternative hypothesis seems to be true when you make a decision in favor of the alternative hypothesis.

Unknown Speaker  4:12  
All right, any questions, so far, so far, so good. So this is our quantity of interest for today. This is what we care about in terms of trying to figure out what it might be in any given situation. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  4:26  
if we want to calculate or estimate statistical power, it is a function of these four things, your sample size, your statistical significance level, your standard deviation and your effect size. Now I say here the first three of these should be relatively apparent as to just what they are in principle, not necessarily in specific deviation, but not what it might be in any given but not what it might be in a given situation, but just like what they are. So sample size obvious. That's just how big a sample you have. Your statistical significance level is just your alpha and your P value cut off. And in terms of why these might be related to your statistical power, it should be relatively apparent why that might be true as.

Unknown Speaker  5:00  
Well for these first three quantities. So sample size,

Unknown Speaker  5:04  
if you want to make the correct decision, it stands to reason that the bigger sample size you have, the higher chance you're going to have of making a correct decision with your data. So bigger sample sizes give you greater statistical power your statistical significance level. We talked about this a little bit in maybe a couple of lectures ago. So we set that to some value point 05, is our typical level, and we say, okay, if our P value is less than that level, whatever that value is, then we're going to reject our null hypothesis. And so

Unknown Speaker  5:30  
let me ask you this for your statistical significance level. If we lower the statistical significance level from point oh five to say point 01, or even smaller. Will your statistical power go up or down or stay the same? Let's do this one by a show of hands. So my question again is, for the second one here, statistical significance level. If you take that from point o5 and lower it to some smaller value, like point o1 will your power go up, down or stay the same? How many of you think up? How many you think down? How many things stay the same? All right, so more of us saying it'll go down, that's correct. Can we get an explanation for why that's the case? Yeah, that's right.

Unknown Speaker  6:19  
Yeah. So it makes it makes it harder to reject the null hypothesis, like no matter what. And so then our power is talking about the probability of rejecting it, specifically when the alternative hypothesis is true. But even if that's the case, it just makes your threshold harder to attain. So your power will go down as your significance level goes down. If you raise your significance level, then your power will go up, but now you open yourself up to a higher probability of making a type one error. So there's a balance and a trade off there our standard deviation. So that's how much variability there is in in the situation, whatever it is we're talking about. So we're talking about the hours of sleep that UCSD students get. How much variability is there in that quantity, in the hours of sleep, as your standard deviation goes up, your power goes down, as there's more variability in the data, your power is going to be harder to detect anything. So in other words, like if it was the case that every single UCSD student got exactly 5.5 hours of sleep, well that's a pretty small difference from that null hypothesis value of six, but if there's no variability, it's going to be pretty clear that, yes, it's actually different from six. Whereas if we had an average of 5.5 hours of sleep, but there's a high standard deviation, a lot of variability in that value, then your power is going to go down. It's gonna be harder to detect that difference. So that's the first three of these. Again, those should be relatively apparent as to what they are. The more nebulous one is this effect size right here. What do we mean by effect size? Okay, well, let's bring it back to this example right here. And we've been talking about this hours of sleep example. And so specifically, we have a sample size of five in that situation, a significant level of point, oh, five that we're going to stick with the standard deviation. Again, in principle, is pretty clear what that is. But what would it be for any power calculation that we're going to do? Like, how would we know what the standard deviation should be? And we'll get into that in a minute here. But now, just in principle, what is the effect size. Any guesses as to what that might mean in principle, in this situation, or anything maybe similar. What do we mean by an effect size in general that

Unknown Speaker  8:16  
looks like the hand, which is like

Unknown Speaker  8:18  
the probability

Unknown Speaker  8:22  
of okay, that's on the right track. So beta, yeah, is like the probability of making a type two error, I think, and beta is just one minus your power. So we really are going to focus more on the power as well, since those are just, you know, inversely related to each other. But that's on the right track. But what an effect size specifically is. Let me put this. Let's put it over there.

Unknown Speaker  8:52  
Is it's the difference in your quantity of interest from the null hypothesis value. I

Unknown Speaker  9:00  
i

Unknown Speaker  9:20  
Yeah. So

Unknown Speaker  9:30  
in other words, when we say effect size in the UCSD student sleep example, if the average amount of sleep that UCSD students got was actually really close to the null hypothesis value of six, we would say we have a very small effect size. There's not much of a difference to be found, if any. However, if the true average amount of sleep that UCSD students got was something like two, two hours of sleep, that's a pretty big difference from six. Our effect size is just exactly that difference the distance between two and six. All right,

Unknown Speaker  9:56  
okay, so.

Unknown Speaker  10:00  
Hopefully, pretty Evidently, the bigger the effect size, the bigger your power is going to be to detect any difference. So in other words, if the true effect size was just like point five, like we were saying, if it's if the true average amount of sleep that UCSD students get is 5.5 hours, it's going to be pretty hard to detect a difference from six with just a difference of point five, right there an effect size of point five. Conversely, again, if you have a bigger effect size, like the shoe average is two hours of sleep, that's going to be easier to pick up than the 5.5 okay, all right. And so the first point of today is that all four of these things are what go into a power calculation. Or, actually, you, yeah, all four of these

Unknown Speaker  10:38  
go into a power calculation. So if you, if you can put in what those four things are, then you can, I are, then you can output a power value. Conversely,

Unknown Speaker  10:47  
for a desired power level, you can say, Okay, I'm going to do a calculation for this desired power level and then solve it as a function of the sample size, and get the sample size out that way. All right, so that's possible as well. Now the next question is, how might we know what specifically these two things are? So your sample size, you can plan that ahead of time, or you can say, Okay, I know I'm going to get this big of a sample, or I already have this big of a sample. Your statistical significance level, you set that ahead of time. We're going to typically use point of five, unless there's some reason to do otherwise. But these two are a bit more nebulous to know, like, what are these supposed to be? Because you're supposed to do your power calculations before you do your data analysis before you actually collected your data, is really what you should be doing. And so if you don't have any data yet, how are you supposed to know what's the standard deviation of the hours of sleep that UCSD students get? And how are you supposed to know what's the effect size of the true average amount of sleep that UCSD students get? All right? And so that's basically what we say right here, is that this is what's sort of challenging conceptually about doing these power calculations, is that we don't know what the standard deviation and effect size are going to be, and if we did know what they were, if we knew what they truly were, then we don't even need to do a study in the first place. We already have the answer to our question. So

Unknown Speaker  11:57  
what might we do in practice if we want to do a power calculation or a sample size calculation. And basically, there's these three overall approaches right here, a literature review, a pilot study, and then post hoc power calculations. So what are each of these things? We'll have them define on the next slide right here. And so let's quickly go through each of these things. A literature review is basically just when you look through previous studies and try to find anything similar. So like, you know, you might be surprised on like, how much research is out there on any possible topic that you might ever think of. And so you can go to like, Google Scholar and just start looking up articles on different topics, and chances are you'll find something that's like, at least closely related to what you're interested in. And so if I'm interested in the amount of sleep that UCSD students get, I could very likely find a study on the sleep of students from some other school, or even UCSD itself that may have already been studied, or even just sleep of any random population of a similar age, right? So you can find that information and then say, Okay, what standard deviation did they have in their sample? Using that, then you can say, Okay, well, that's probably at least a good approximation of what the standard deviation in my sample is going to be. And then I can use that in my power calculations to determine at least a rough ballpark of how big of a sample size that I might need, or what my power might be for any given sample size. So that's a literature review. A pilot study is one in which you say, Okay, I can't find anything in the literature that's close enough to what I'm doing. So I'm going to collect a preliminary, small set of data. And this is sometimes hard to do in certain situations where it like, takes a long time to collect even one data point. Some, like agricultural studies are like this, where you got to, like, grow stuff, and so, like, it just takes forever to get any data whatsoever. But if you are, if you are in a situation where, like, you can collect a small sample relatively quickly, then you can say, Okay, let me do that. And then that will give me a ballpark estimate of what my standard deviation of the situation should be,

Unknown Speaker  13:44  
and also what the effect size might be as well, in terms of whatever difference you see in that pilot study.

Unknown Speaker  13:51  
The last one of these is the post hoc power calculations. And this is where you do your power calculations after your data have already been collected, you've done your analysis, you already have your conclusions, in fact. And then you want to determine, basically, like, what was the power of your study? Now this is the least desirable thing to do. And like, I'm really against doing this in general, because it's like, you've already done your analysis. You have your so there's a couple reasons why this is, like, not great. You already have your data. And so when you do any sort of power calculations at that point, it's like, what are you even doing them for? Like, the whole point of a power calculation is to tell you, ahead of time, how much data should you collect, or what's the power that you expect to attain. So at that point, it's like, it's too late. It doesn't matter what your power was. At this point, you either rejected the null hypothesis with your data or you didn't. But in terms of how much power you think you had, it's not really relevant at this point. And then the other thing going on with that is, with that is that if you rejected the null hypothesis, well then clearly you had decent statistical power to reject the null hypothesis. It's like almost redundant at that point, whereas if you didn't reject the null hypothesis, well then either the null hypothesis was actually true or whatever effect size is, the truth just wasn't big enough to give you a high power to correctly.

Unknown Speaker  15:00  
Check the null hypothesis. So again, this is the least desirable thing to do. I mentioned it because it does. People do do it out there. And like I say here, I do often get asked by collab collaborators to do this. Like, already have my data and I made my conclusions. But like, can you do power calculations now and tell me what my power was? And it's like, yeah, I can, but it doesn't mean a whole lot at this point. So So really, we want to be doing one of these two things right here as the like, sort of correct approach to estimating power.

Unknown Speaker  15:26  
Okay, so let's go through a bit of an example here, and let's suppose that we do a literature review on this sleep example here, and from that literature review, we get an estimate of the variance of the amount of sleep of one hour. And so standard deviation is the square root of the variance, so that's just one as well for the standard just one as well for the standard deviation. And then that it might be the case that the average amount of sleep that UCSD students get is four hours per night. And so our question is now just if that is the reality, if it was actually the truth that the true average is four hours of sleep per night with a standard deviation of one, what would our statistical power be under that reality?

Unknown Speaker  16:04  
Okay, and so in mathematical notation, we are assuming this right here. So each x is a sleep value for the i student, and then that follows a normal distribution with this mean and variance right there. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  16:18  
Now what we want to do with the power calculation is determine the probability that we would correctly reject the null hypothesis if this is actually the truth.

Unknown Speaker  16:29  
So what I'm going to do first is give us, like, sort of a high level overview of the theory approach to calculating power. And we can do this with built in functions, and that's fine, but then after that, what I want to focus focus more on is the simulation based approach to calculating power okay, but let's talk about the theory first. So theoretically, what we want to do, if we're trying to answer this question, is, again, determine what's the probability that I will reject the null hypothesis? What that means is, what is the probability that I get a test statistic value that is in the rejection region of the null distribution. Well, assuming that we're still going to do a T test on this situation right here, our test statistic is still this right here. We take our sample mean, subtract off the null hypothesis value of the mean, divide by the standard deviation over the square root of the sample size. So this is our test statistic, right here. And now, again, theoretically, if I want to determine what is the probability of being in the rejection region, then what I need to know is, what is the distribution of this thing right here? If this is the reality. So we know

Unknown Speaker  17:27  
the whole like foundation of doing a t test is that this thing right here, under the null hypothesis, follows that, so called T distribution. The null hypothesis says that mu naught is equal to six. But now what if the true mean is actually four? If the true mean is actually four, what's the distribution of this thing right here? Okay. And so again, here's our null distribution. So if the null hypothesis is actually true, this is the distribution of this quantity right here. Our rejection region is shaded in right here. And so the question is, what is the probability of being in the rejection region? If the true mean is actually four, okay. And so what we need to do is figure out what the distribution of the test statistic, this TS quantity right here, is under the null, excuse me, under this alternative hypothesis of a true mean of four. Okay, so the calculation of the test statistic, we still just take our sample mean minus six divided by the standard deviation over the square root of

Unknown Speaker  18:22  
five. This thing right here does not follow a t distribution, because it would follow a t distribution only if the null hypothesis was actually true, only if the true mean of

Unknown Speaker  18:32  
these x values was actually six. What we're saying right now is that it's not the true mean is four. And so with that being the case, then what can we say about the distribution of this thing right here. What we can do is say, Okay, well, if the true mean is four, then what we need to do is reformulate this as x bar minus four in the numerator right here, and then that thing will follow a t distribution. So what I'm doing right here is I'm just adding and subtracting four in my numerator. I can do that. That's adding zero, then split it up. So now I have X bar minus four over this quantity right here, this left hand quantity, the first quantity after the equal sign. This thing now does follow a t distribution.

Unknown Speaker  19:05  
We're saying the true mean of x is four. We subtract off its mean divided by the standard deviation over the square root of n. This thing right here does, in fact, follow a t distribution. But then we still have this guy over here, two over the standard deviation divided by the square root of five. What's that? Well, it says down here, that's this is a random shift to the left to smaller values.

Unknown Speaker  19:26  
It's random because it's got the sample standard deviation right here. The sample standard deviation is just a function of your data. Your data changed from sample to sample. And so this quantity, the sample standard deviation, is also a random quantity. So with that being the case, this thing has what we know of as a non central t distribution, right? So again, this quantity right here does follow t distribution. We've got a shift of the values to the left. And so if this wasn't random, it would literally just be like, take a t distribution and just shift it over, because this is random. Now it's sort of like stretches out the t distribution a little bit because.

Unknown Speaker  20:00  
Of that randomness, and I have an illustration of that on the next slide right here. But what this means is that the true distribution of the test statistic under this alternative hypothesis is shifted to the left, having a so called non central t distribution with this so called non centrality parameter right here. Was all that mean? Well, graphically, it's going to look like this. So I've got my null distribution again right here. So this is exactly the same as this, but I'm just moving it over on my graph. So because I'm going to show like some something else on here, so the null distribution is still centered at zero right here. Now the alternative distribution, that is the distribution of the test statistic, if the true mean is actually four, is this thing right here? So this is my distribution of the shifted t distribution, and with that random shift. So again, because this is random, is not just this whole thing moving over. It's gotten like, again, like, sort of flattened out a little bit. I

Unknown Speaker  20:59  
started Chung every time I look at this graph, because as I said, I have a five year old, and we watch a lot of Sesame Street, and I look at this, and it just feels like this is like Ernie and Burke, like this is Bert, and then Ernie is, like, a little bit wider and shorter. So once I, once I saw that, I just, like, hit on see it. Okay. But anyways,

Unknown Speaker  21:16  
what's this shade of region right here? Again, this is the null distribution. Now this thing is that non central t distribution that I was referring to under the reality that our data have a normal distribution with a mean of four and a standard deviation of

Unknown Speaker  21:31  
one. This like sort of lined, shaded area here. This is our statistical power. What we said was that our power is the probability of being in the rejection region

Unknown Speaker  21:42  
under this reality. And so if this is the true distribution of our test statistic, our rejection region is still starting right here. There's upper tail as well. It's practically impossible for it to even get up there. So like, yes, it's non zero, but it's almost zero. Most of the power comes from this side, right here, all of this area right here, is our statistical power, again, by definition over there, the probability of correctly rejecting the null hypothesis. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  22:07  
we can calculate this exactly what this is using some R functions here.

Unknown Speaker  22:12  
So first of all, we already saw this quantity before. But just to remind us, where does this rejection region start at? What is this value on the x axis right here, we get that by using this Qt function. So we're saying, okay with this null distribution right here, what is the two point fifth percentile? And again, that's going to be the start of the rejection region on this side, and it's negative 2.77 and so now the question is, under this alternative distribution, what is the lower tail probability for this negative 2.77 right here. What is the probability of getting a test statistic value that is less than negative 2.77 and so now we can go back to this PT function. PT gives us lower tail probabilities corresponding to the t distribution. I want a lower tail probability corresponding to negative 2.77 etc, with this non centrality parameter right here. So I tell it what that non centrality parameter is coming from this right here, and then this tells me that that area is point 90888, all of this right here is that point 9088849.

Unknown Speaker  23:09  
So that would be my statistical power if the true average amount of sleep that UCSD students get is four hours, with a standard deviation of one and with a sample size of five. So I know right here, technically there's a right tail as well. We would need to add this into like, what's the probability that under this non central t distribution? I get a test statistic that's way out in this part of the rejection region, but as you can see from the graph, it's going to be practically zero and it's negligible. Okay, questions on any of that now, there

Unknown Speaker  23:42  
is this built in function in R, and we'll use this. You see this in lab two and three even, I think. And so this is pretty handy for us. Instead of, like, you know, visualizing this graph and figuring out, like, what it was to cut off and then PT, all that stuff, you just use this power dot, T, dot test function and give it all the input values. So n equals five. That's my sample size. Delta refers to the effect size.

Unknown Speaker  24:01  
Let's write in three players and

Unknown Speaker  24:10  
actually think this should be absolute value.

Unknown Speaker  24:14  
So it's just how different is your actual mean or your supposed mean from the null hypothesis. Value of mean we said here, the standard deviation is equal to one. That's from this here. Again, I give it the significance level of interest, point of five. Tell it that we're doing a one sample test here instead of a two sample test, which we haven't even gotten to yet, but we will next week. And then we're two sided alternative. Again, it doesn't make a whole lot of difference here, but then that gives us this output right here. A lot of it is just spitting back the information that I gave to it. But the power is what it's actually calculating right here. And you'll notice that this quantity right here is exactly the same, at least to this many decimal points, as the one we got kind of more manually right here. So we don't have to do things this way. I was sort of just illustrating fundamentally, where would this power value come from. But the power dot, T, dot test function will do that for us if you just input all the values of interest, all right?

Unknown Speaker  25:00  
Right now, if there's no questions on that, like I said, I want to give us kind of a high level overview of the theory approach to doing a power calculation. And then our bigger focus of the day is going to be doing this via simulation. Also, if you look at the reading that I linked for today, that actually is pretty good in terms of this topic, right here. So you can check that out for kind of more clarification on anything or details on anything. Okay, but so here's what we conclude from that power calculation, that if it was true that the average amount of sleep that UCSD students can get is four hours with a standard deviation of one, then our power to detect this alternative hypothesis that the mean is not equal to six with the sample size of five is approximately that, right there. So that's good. We do want power to be high generally. Our rule of thumb is like 80% power is pretty good. If you have an 80% chance of making that correct decision, that's good. We've got a couple of lingering questions that we'll address through the rest of the time for today. First, first one is, what if the alternative hypothesis is true? That is that it is, in fact, correct to reject the null hypothesis, but not exactly with that mean and standard deviation or variance. In other words, like, how do we really know that that's true? We said at the beginning of this example that this comes from a literature review, but whatever that literature review found that wasn't exactly our data, that wasn't exactly our situation. And so what if ours is even like, slightly different from this? How do we handle that? The second question is, is there a better way to accomplish what we just did? All this business right here? And the answer is yes, and via simulation is what we want to focus on the next little bit here. So let's do that first, and then we'll swing back to the first question here about, like, you know, different possible alternative hypotheses. Okay, so that whole theory based approach, everything that we showed on the slide, everything that we did, and you everything that we did, and you will still do on occasion, it's all fine, but it's got a bunch of downsides to it. One, it's a little bit conceptually difficult to understand. What the hell the non central t distribution? Yeah, it is what it is, but, um, it therefore involves a lot of memorization or looking stuff up. Like, okay, yes, either I can try to, like, remember exactly what's going on here, or, like, what's my power dot, T, dot t, dot test function, and then what do I need to give to it? So you need to, you need to, like, kind of look that up every time. If you don't just, like, how to memorize.

Unknown Speaker  26:49  
The main downside, really, is this right here, is that this doesn't readily transfer to other situations. So we're going to, pretty soon here be getting to more, like, regression type situations. And so the point is that, okay, yes, if you know that for a t test, I can just use the power dot t, dot test function, great. That's fine for a t test. What do you do when we're in a regression situation? Maybe the same thing, maybe similar, but it's not exactly obvious right off the bat, like, how you would do that? Conversely, when we do simulation, fundamentally, you're doing the same type of thing in any different situation that you might come across. And yes, you have to adapt your simulations to the different situations, but I'm arguing that it's far easier to do that than it is to figure out, like, how does this function apply to a regression situation, or what other function do I need to find to do that? The power calculation there. And so that's basically what we're getting at. And then the fourth one is actually really important statistical point as well. This power dot t dot test function only works if your alternative hypothesis is that your data still follow a normal distribution. This whole non central t distribution business right here, this relies on your data still following a normal distribution, just with some other mean and whatever variance that might not be different from your null distribution, right here, but this power dot c dot test function if your data, if you want to estimate power, say, supposing that your data follow the gamma distribution, this will not do that via simulation. We can very easily do that. So this is what I'm laying out here. Is that we already know how to do simulation. In general. We're already pretty good at that from like all your other DTC classes, we're learning how to do it specific. Specifically in R right now. But like, conceptually, this should not be that big of a leap for us. And so it's much conceptually easier to understand what any simulation procedure is doing, as opposed to like understanding what a non central t distribution is, or even like remembering that there's the power dot t dot test function and exactly what its arguments are. And then the second point already just said, once you know how to simulate an estimate of statistical power in one situation, it's much easier to transfer that, the skill, the ability to do that, over to any other situation, much easier to do that than it is to figure out, like, what the right function for a power calculation in the regression setting. And then finally, this last point here, that goes hand in hand with this disadvantage right here, that when we're doing simulation, we are not limited to any particular distribution at all. Anything that you can simulate under, you can estimate power under that, and we can simulate under pretty much any distribution that we want. And so that's a statistical advantage for doing a simulation approach as well. Okay, so now the question is, how we do it? How do we get a simulated estimate of statistical power? Well, the first thing that we're going to do here is to get the equivalent of this right here. So under the same situation where we use the power dot t, dot test, and got the theory based value of the statistical power under the normal distribution. Let's do a simulation based version of that, and so then we should get approximately the same power in that case, but, but just to sort of like get our hands dirty and comfortable with what needs to happen with the simulation, we're going to simulate under exactly the same alternative hypothesis that we just did for the theory based approach. So samples of size five, normal distribution with a mean of four and then a variance of one, or again, equivalently, a standard deviation of one. We'll do a T test on the simulated data that we get with the null hypothesis of u equals six again to get a P value with that determine whether the P value is less than point five, we'll stick with an alpha level point of five, repeat many times. How the proportion of time that test statistic does give us p value that is less than point 05 and so if you're thinking about what you need to do here, you'll hopefully notice that this is actually remarkably similar to what we have done when we were estimating type one errors. And in fact, structurally, it's the same exact simulation. The difference is that, when we were estimating type one error rates our simulation, the data that we simulate, our data under the null hypothesis is that the null hypothesis is true. Now what's the probability that we incorrectly reject the null hypothesis? The difference now.

Unknown Speaker  30:00  
Is this. This is the only thing that is fundamentally different with what we're doing right now, is that now we're simulating under the null hypothesis being false. And specifically for this first one here, when I simulate with amino four, we now still estimate the probability that we reject the null hypothesis. The difference now is that it is correct to reject the null hypothesis, and so then that is our power. Okay, so I've got some skeleton code for doing this power estimate.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
